1. User Search & Filters
Search by email, name, role, risk level, activity

Filters: Role, account status (active, locked), user id, last login,date range 

2. Role & Permission Management
Assign/remove roles (Admin, Risk Analyst, Auditor, etc.)

3. Account Status Controls
Activate/deactivate accounts

Lock/unlock users

Force logout

4. Password Controls
Reset password (as you're building)

Force password change on next login

View last password change date

5. Audit Logs
Track all user actions (who edited what, when)

View user activity logs (logins, password changes, violations)



7. Login History
Show last login IP, time, device

8. User Session Management
View all active sessions for a user

Force session termination

IP and device details


10. User Notes & Internal Tags
Allow admins to leave internal notes per user
Add tags 

11. Bulk User Actions
Bulk reset passwords, assign roles, disable accounts

Upload CSV to onboard/deactivate users in batches

12. Scheduled Account Reviews
Auto-expire unused accounts

Prompt admins for account reviews (e.g., quarterly)

13. User Metrics
Daily/weekly/monthly active users

Login trends

Role distribution

14. Access Violation Alerts
Real-time notifications for failed login attempts


15. Dark Mode / Theme Switching
Improve accessibility and comfort for long sessions

17. Interactive Dashboards
Graphs showing access patterns, user risk levels

Drill-down features (click chart → filtered user list)

18. user logout if inactive while logged in an account for more than 1 minute php logs them out

19. User Activity Heatmap
Visual chart showing which times of day users are most active.
Password policy: Password expiration: every 30 days

20. Lock the account after X failures (e. g 6).
and Keep it locked for a duration (e.g. 15 minutes) or until admin unlocks.
admin feature to unlock  the locked accounts for users whose account is locked who  were  while logging in their accounts were  locked due   to many wrong log in attempts

Track failed login attempts per user  

21. Invite New Users with Email Token: Admin Dashboard Integration
On the admin dashboard:
Add form: "Invite New User" → email + role
Show list of pending invites (with resend/revoke options)
Admin enters user's email and role.
System creates a user account with a unique token and sends an invite email.
User clicks the tokenized link → sets password → account is activated.

 22. A “Create Backup” button for admins Backup Database: Create a backup of the entire risk management database.
Full Database Dump: Export entire database content into a file ( JSON/CSV)

Lets admins directly reset any user's password from the admin portal (without sending a reset email) 
Admins to search for a specific user (e.g., by name, email, or username)
View the user’s profile or result
Enter a new password for that user and reset it directly from the dashboard

approval waiting from the admin for new users  to be able to log into the system
